[doc] Improve Pulsar Security Kerberos (#5069)
apache/pulsar: site2/docs/security-kerberos.md

sidebar_label: Authentication using Kerberos
---

> [Kerberos](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/) is a network authentication protocol. By using secret-key cryptography, [Kerberos](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/) is designed to provide strong authentication for client applications or server applications. 

Reviewer: or --> and

> In Pulsar, we use Kerberos with [SASL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Authentication_and_Security_Layer) as a choice for authentication. And Pulsar uses the [Java Authentication and Authorization Service (JAAS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Authentication_and_Authorization_Service) for SASL configuration. You need to provide JAAS configurations for Kerberos authentication. 

Reviewer: Try to avoid to use "we", "I", "us" in technical writing.

In this document, we introduce how to configure `Kerberos` with `SASL` between Pulsar clients and brokers and how to configure Kerberos for Pulsar proxy in detail.

## Configuration for Kerberos between Client and Broker

### Prerequisites

To begin, you need to set up (or already have) a [Key Distribution Center(KDC)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key_distribution_center). Also you need to configure and run the [Key Distribution Center(KDC)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key_distribution_center)in advance. 

> If your organization is already using a Kerberos server (for example, by using `Active Directory`), you do not have to install a new server for Pulsar. If your organization is not using a Kerberos server, you need to install one. Your Linux vendor might have packages for `Kerberos`. Refer to a short guide on how to install and configure it from here: ([Ubuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Kerberos), 

Reviewer: On how to install and configure Kerberos, refer to ....

 - Set `authenticationEnabled` to `true`;
 - Set `authenticationProviders` to choose `AuthenticationProviderSasl`;
 - Set `saslJaasClientAllowedIds` regex for principal that is allowed to connect to broker;
 - Set `saslJaasBrokerSectionName` that corresponds to the section in JAAS configuration file for broker;
 
 To make Pulsar internal admin client work properly, you need to set the configuration in the `broker.conf` file as below: 
 - Set `brokerClientAuthenticationPlugin` to client plugin `AuthenticationSasl`;

>  - Set `brokerClientAuthenticationParameters` to value in JSON string `{"saslJaasClientSectionName":"PulsarClient", "serverType":"broker"}`, in which `PulsarClient` is the section name in above `pulsar_jaas.conf` file, and `"serverType":"broker"` indicates that the internal admin client connects to a Pulsar Broker;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Set `brokerClientAuthenticationParameters` to value in JSON string `{"saslJaasClientSectionName":"PulsarClient", "serverType":"broker"}`, in which `PulsarClient` is the section name in the `pulsar_jaas.conf` file, and `"serverType":"broker"` indicates that the internal admin client connects to a Pulsar Broker;
```

    </dependency>
```

Configure the authentication type to use `AuthenticationSasl`, and also provide the authentication parameters to it. 

You need 2 parameters: 
- `saslJaasClientSectionName`, which is corresponding to the section in JAAS configuration file for client; 

> - `serverType`, which stands for whether this client is connected to broker or proxy. And client uses this parameter to know this client should use which server side principal. 

Reviewer: re-write.

> When you authenticates between client and broker with the setting in above JAAS configuration file, we need to set `saslJaasClientSectionName` to `PulsarClient` and set `serverType` to `broker`.

Reviewer: "you authenticates" or "you authenticate"?

         .build();
 ```

> The first two lines in the example above are hard coded, alternatively, you can set additional JVM parameters for JAAS and krb5 configuration file when you are running the application like below:

```
java -cp -Djava.security.auth.login.config=/etc/pulsar/pulsar_jaas.conf -Djava.security.krb5.conf=/etc/pulsar/krb5.conf $APP-jar-with-dependencies.jar $CLASSNAME
```

> You must ensure that the operating system user who is starting pulsar client can reach the keytabs configured in the `pulsar_jaas.conf` file and kdc server in the `krb5.conf` file.

Reviewer: is starting-->starts

#### Configure CLI tools

If you are using a command-line tool (such as `bin/pulsar-client`, `bin/pulsar-perf` and `bin/pulsar-admin`), you need to preform the following steps:

> Step 1. Enter the command below to config your `client.conf`.

Reviewer: config-->configure

```shell
   -Djava.security.auth.login.config=/etc/pulsar/pulsar_jaas.conf -Djava.security.krb5.conf=/etc/pulsar/krb5.conf 
```

You can add this at the end of `PULSAR_EXTRA_OPTS` in the file [`pulsar_tools_env.sh`](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/blob/master/conf/pulsar_tools_env.sh),
or add this line `OPTS="$OPTS -Djava.security.auth.login.config=/etc/pulsar/pulsar_jaas.conf -Djava.security.krb5.conf=/etc/pulsar/krb5.conf "` directly to the CLI tool script.

The meaning of configurations is the same as the meaning of configurations in Java client section.

##  Kerberos configuration for working with Pulsar Proxy

With the above configuration, client and broker can do authentication using Kerberos.  

A client that connects to Pulsar Proxy is a little different. Pulsar Proxy (as a SASL Server in Kerberos) authenticates Client (as a SASL client in Kerberos) first; and then Pulsar broker authenticates Pulsar Proxy. 

Now in comparision with the above configuration between client and broker, we show you how to configure Pulsar Proxy as follows. 

### Create principal for Pulsar Proxy in Kerberos

> In comparision with the above configuration, you need to add new principals for Pulsar Proxy. If you already have principals for client and broker, only add the proxy principal here.

Reviewer: re-write this sentence.

         .build();
 ```

> > The first two lines in the example above are hard coded, alternatively, you can set additional JVM parameters for JAAS and krb5 configuration file when you are running the application like below:

Reviewer: when you run

## Regarding authentication between ZooKeeper and Broker

Pulsar Broker acts as a Kerberos client when you are authenticating with Zookeeper. According to [ZooKeeper document](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ZOOKEEPER/Client-Server+mutual+authentication), you need these settings in `conf/zookeeper.conf`:

```
authProvider.1=org.apache.zookeeper.server.auth.SASLAuthenticationProvider
requireClientAuthScheme=sasl
```

> And enter the following commands to add a section of `Client` configurations in the file `pulsar_jaas.conf`, which Pulsar Broker uses:

Reviewer: Delete "And" at the beginning.

};
```

In this setting, the principal of Pulsar Broker and keyTab file indicates the role of Broker when you are authenticating with ZooKeeper.

## Regarding authentication between BookKeeper and Broker

> Pulsar Broker acts as a Kerberos client when you are authenticating with Bookie. According to [BookKeeper document](http://bookkeeper.apache.org/docs/latest/security/sasl/), you need to add `bookkeeperClientAuthenticationPlugin` parameter in `broker.conf`:

Reviewer: Replace "when you are v-ing" with "when you v xxx".
Use present tense in technical writing. Check all similar cases.

```
bookkeeperClientAuthenticationPlugin=org.apache.bookkeeper.sasl.SASLClientProviderFactory
```

In this setting, `SASLClientProviderFactory` creates a BookKeeper SASL client in a Broker, and the Broker uses the created SASL client to authenticate with a Bookie node.

> And enter the following commands to add a section of `BookKeeper` configurations in the `pulsar_jaas.conf` that Pulsar Broker uses:

Reviewer: Delete "And" at the beginning.

};
```

> In this setting, the principal of Pulsar Broker and keyTab file indicates the role of Broker when you are authenticating with Bookie.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this setting, the principal of Pulsar Broker and keyTab file indicates the role of Broker when you authenticate with Bookie.
```
